Never attack a group of enemies when there's a hostage among them... you might injure yourself!
Conserve bullets... use short bursts.
Eliminate the animals for power-up weapons.
Don't pass up the chance to collect power-up boxes... you'll need them!
Save your rocket grenades for the helicopters.
In rooms with characters that shoot, make sure that emerald framers, heart framers, or rocks are between Lolo and the monsters.
At the beginning of each level stay put for a few moments and carefully plan your moves ahead of time.
Watch for the password at the end of each room. This allows you to continue your next game where you left off.
Sometimes the best strategy is to let the beasties comes right at you... but several beasties have special weapons and running away from them is your best defense!
Grab every magic bonus you can get... you'll need them to outwit the beasties!!
Get to round 20 on your first Bub for a hidden treat!
Use fire, thunder, and water bubbles to burst several beasties in one blow.
To help defeat the evil bosses, stay very close and let them throw fireballs past you... after he throws, jump up and throw your axe at his head!
To find the first bonus round, go to area 1, round 1, section 3... stand in front of the fifth totem pole, and away you go to the bonus round!
Throughout the game there are magic areas, where either a bonus round or egg will appear. An easy way to find these: throw your axe... if it disappears, you're in a magic area!
Don't miss the Blue Ninja in these rounds in order to receive twice as much magic!
Hit him with your shuriken - when he throws his sword, hit him again!
Several shots to the copter's nose will end this nightmarish scene.
Run up, jump and rapid fire to destroy Mandara.
Shoot your drone ship at the center of the boss alien.
Save a supershot for the blue power crystal at the rotating passageway.
Place your drone ship directly above the alien's eye.
Catch drone ship behind you before heading to the top of the battleship.
Use your reflecting laser here for best results.
Your reflecting laser works best in this mazelike environment.
Stay long the lower part of the city to avoid ceiling dwelling alien creatures.
For up to ten extra lives, when the Game Over screen is shown, move your controller directional button rapidly in a clockwise circular motion! And, for a sound check, perform the same procedure in a counter-clockwise motion!
The shadows of the flying attackers will help you determine their altitude.
Use the pyramids to shield yourself from enemies!
The combinations for two excellent super powers are invincibility (Feather + Bowl + Bird) and Omnicide (Ankh + Cane + Sun).
Beware... the last pest of each phase will change color and move much faster!
When you are playing the game with a less-skilled friend, he can hide on the bottom of the screen between the two pipes, where it's safe from pests, until the coast is clear!
One way to temporarily eliminate a Fireball is to punch the floor beneath one when it nears the floor.
Keep your eye on the engine temperature when pressing the turbo boost button.
Constantly shoot or push blocks in all areas of rooms to check for hidden items. Check each room thoroughly or you may find yourself returning later for objects you don't have that prevent you from going further.
If your shield is losing energy, shoot small demons until you earn a power heart and replenish your shield!
Remember that hints you receive in the secret shops are for the next level of the game. Don't waste your time looking for these things now! Just remember them when you reach the next level.
Never take on one of these giant demons without having full power. Grab two umbrellas to make your bubbles at maximum rapid fire mode! Bubble hits must be directly on their heads!
Look for the hidden power ups that energize you as you fight for survival.
Don't accidentally shoot your hostages or you'll lose 500 points.
Keep a defender between the goal and the computer offensive player. If the computer moves past one of your defenders, switch your control to one of your other defenders.
Take your time to explore each area thoroughly or you will miss important messages and clues that tell you where to go next.
Search for the one who gives you the powerful Plasma Arrows in Japan. To activate these hold your cipher in the air for five seconds and then fire.
Don't forget to master the Triangle and Acceleration Jumps and the Slide. Some areas are impossible without these skills.
Analyzing data disks aboard the Blue Dragon allows transportation to new locations on earth.
Walk back to the sideline, then run to the center line and throw at your opponents, for a better chance for a "power shot."
When you have the enemy in your target site, lock in and fire a missile immediately. A second too late and you'll miss your target.
When landing your Stealth jet, keep your nose down, remember to drop your landing gear and try pressing the throttle down button four times.
When the title screen appears hold down the directional button diagonally, UP and LEFT, and press Buttons 1 and 2 simultaneously. This gives you extra health on your life gauge.
To defeat Aggar stay close and shoot fire balls. Run away when heads are thrown.
Stay about one body length away from Octeyes and shoot directly at his eye. Use your energy field to protect you when thrown spores get too close.
When fighting Crocodile Wyrm shoot him from underneath as he goes to the top of the screen. When the slimy lizard is low, jump over single fire balls and duck and shoot after four are thrown.
To defeat Neff only shoot one fire ball at a time. Then jump up and over him when he charges.
Don't waste time hanging around! Day becomes night, and the bats come out to get you!
When traveling inside the various dungeons where the Evil Lords of Semia live, watch out for small "points" protruding from walls or floors. These are spear traps. Running over them costs you part of your life meter.
The Evil Lords are most easily defeated if you stay on one screen and allow them to come to you.
Defeat the Area Boss at the end of Level 1 with your nunchaku or duck and rapid punch him.
You can easily avoid an unarmed gang member by jumping over him before he grabs hold of you. Do this by pressing Buttons 1 and 2 simultaneously.
Defeat the Area Boss by ducking and using low, rapid punches.
One accurately timed jump, kick or punch will defeat a cyclist.
Don't let the Big Boss touch you or he'll lift you up and toss you!
Fly in a circular motion to dodge enemy firepower.
Carefully watch the color change in your shield indicating how much protection is left. When your shield is weak, fly more defensively.
Watch the directional arrows carefully and try not to oversteer when coming out of a turn.
A rapid fire controller works wonders in this game.
If a bomb is protected by ghouls, shoot the bomb to destroy all the monsters surrounding it. Conserve your supply of bombs and use only when in extreme danger.
If there are ghouls guarding a couple of spawners, use hit and run tactics until most of the ghouls are cleared - then destroy the spawners!
Remember, if you're sharing your adventure with a friend and one of you collapses, you can both revive by finding a heart and shooting it.
If a hole in the floor is no larger than a lifting platform, just walk over it.
Watch robots closely to discover their patterns and decide the best way of handling them.
Only use passwords when you can't avoid the robots any other way.
Always keep in mind the location of the nearest air pump for emergencies.
Draw a map of every known room in the mansion, making special notes to avoid hazards.
Always look behind or underneath crates! You never know what you'll find there (pick crates and all other objects up by pressing the OPTION or SPACE BAR).
Since you only hold one object at a time, carry lighted objects to the difficult rooms and leave them there to help you avoid hazards whenever you enter.
With one player you have unlimited continuous play through the main boss. In the two-player mode you have unlimited continuous play until the two players fight each other.
Also, on the training against Drago your best score should be 80 or over. Drago's weakness is in the fifth round. Concentrate on Button 2.